---
layout: post
author: kurochan
title: "all the bellgro"
categories: kurobako
---

Bell and CHSH Inequalities
==========================

In response to the infamous EPR paradox, Bell showed that no theory
(hidden variable or otherwise) positing locality could produce the
correlations theoretically possible in quantum theory. That is, “No
physical theory of local hidden variables can ever reproduce all of the
predictions of quantum mechanics.” (Or a superdeterministic theory with
information traveling instantaneously can reproduce it.)

<span>**Bell’s Inequality.**</span> If *a*, *b*, *c* are unit vectors
along which a spin measurement is made on an entangled pair of spin-1/2
particles in the spin singlet state, such that parallel measurements are
completely anticorrelated, then a local hidden variable theory must
yields correlations satisfying:
*ρ*(*a*, *c*)−*ρ*(*b*, *a*)−*ρ*(*b*, *c*)≤1
 where *ρ*(*a*, *b*)=⟨*A*(*a*, *λ*)⋅*B*(*b*, *λ*)⟩ and *A*, *B* are the
measurement devices.

While the Bell inequality was a very deep result, it eluded experimental
verification for a while because of the requirement of complete
anticorrelation (i.e. ideal spin singlet). Moreover, as Bell noted in
his original paper, Bell’s inequality does not exclude the following
options:

1) A local hidden variable theory for a single particle:
<span>**entanglement**</span> is entirely necessary.

2) A hidden variable theory that is explicitly nonlocal: that is, Bell’s
inequality does not exclude hidden variable theories more generally, but
requires that the measurement in one detector be allowed to depend on
the setting (unit vector *a*, *b*) of the other detector. This would
imply superluminal information transfer.

<span>**CHSH Inequality.**</span> In the same setup as Bell, let
*a*, *a*′ be unit vectors along which measurement is made in the *A*
detector, and *b*, *b*′ for the *B* detector. Then, a local hidden
variable theory implies:
|*ρ*(*a*, *b*)−*ρ*(*a*, *b*′) + *ρ*(*a*′,*b*)+*ρ*(*a*′,*b*′)|≤2

While the CHSH inequality improves upon Bell’s for the purposes of
experimental physics (since no perfect spin singlet is necessary), it is
still not very general. It turns out that Bell’s inequalities can be
represented as <span>**linear inequalities on observables**</span>
rather than depending on particular states. In particular, the CHSH
inequality generalizes as:

<span>**CHSH (Operators).**</span> For arbitrary Hermitian elements of a
C\*-algebra
*A*<sub>1</sub>, *A*<sub>2</sub>, *B*<sub>1</sub>, *B*<sub>2</sub> such
that ∥*A*<sub>*i*</sub>∥,∥*B*<sub>*j*</sub>∥≤1 and
\[*A*<sub>*k*</sub>, *B*<sub>*j*</sub>\]=0,
$$A\_1B\_1 + A\_1B\_2 + A\_2B\_1 - A\_2B\_2 \\leq 2\\sqrt{2}\\cdot I$$

which follows from a more general relation of:
(*A*<sub>1</sub>*B*<sub>1</sub> + *A*<sub>1</sub>*B*<sub>2</sub> + *A*<sub>2</sub>*B*<sub>1</sub> − *A*<sub>2</sub>*B*<sub>2</sub>)<sup>2</sup> ≤ 4 ⋅ *I* − \[*A*<sub>1</sub>, *A*<sub>2</sub>\]⋅\[*B*<sub>1</sub>, *B*<sub>2</sub>\]

Classical and Quantum Correlation Matrices
==========================================

We can classify entire spaces of correlation matrices based on whether
they can be realized by a “classical” (i.e. local hidden variable)
theory or a “quantum” theory. The context is as follows: two detectors
make measurements according to *a*<sub>1</sub>, …, *a*<sub>*n*</sub> and
*b*<sub>1</sub>, …, *b*<sub>*m*</sub> unit vectors on two entangled
spin-1/2 particles. If we again define
*ρ*(*a*<sub>*j*</sub>, *b*<sub>*k*</sub>)≡⟨*A*(*a*<sub>*j*</sub>, *λ*)⋅*B*(*b*<sub>*k*</sub>, *λ*)⟩,
then the corresponding correlation matrix is:
*C*(*λ*)=\[*ρ*(*a*<sub>*j*</sub>, *b*<sub>*k*</sub>)\]
 and any classical correlation matrix is a convex combination:
*C* = ∑<sub>*λ*</sub>*p*<sub>*λ*</sub>*C*(*λ*) or
*C* = ∫*ρ*(*λ*)*C*(*λ*)*d**λ*. Thus:
*Λ*<sub>*C*</sub> ≡  Classical correlation matrices  = *c**h*(*C*(*λ*))

In the quantum case, the measurements correspond to observables
*A*<sub>1</sub>, …, *A*<sub>*n*</sub>,
*B*<sub>1</sub>, …, *B*<sub>*m*</sub> with eigenvalues ±1. Then the
correlation matrix is given by:
*ρ*(*A*<sub>*i*</sub>, *B*<sub>*j*</sub>)=⟨*ψ*|*A*<sub>*j*</sub> ⊗ *B*<sub>*k*</sub>|*ψ*⟩
 and
*Λ*<sub>*Q*</sub> ≡  Quantum correlation matrices  = {*C*=\[⟨*ψ*|*A*<sub>*j*</sub>⊗*B*<sub>*k*</sub>|*ψ*⟩\], for some *A*<sub>*i*</sub>,*B*<sub>*j*</sub>, state |*ψ*⟩}
 consists of matrices that can be generated by suitable sets of
observables.

In this formulation, we can also characterize
*Λ*<sub>*C*</sub> ⊂ *Λ*<sub>*Q*</sub> with the same condition, except
that all operators *A*<sub>*i*</sub>, *B*<sub>*j*</sub> commute.

Tsirelson’s Theorem
===================

Though proved in greater generality, Tsirelson provided a clear
characterization of quantum correlation matrices:

<span>**Tsirelson.**</span> *C* is a quantum correlation matrix iff
there exist
*u*<sub>1</sub>, …, *u*<sub>*n*</sub>, *v*<sub>1</sub>, …, *v*<sub>*m*</sub> ∈ ℝ<sup>*n* + *m*</sup>
with ∥*u*<sub>*j*</sub>∥=∥*v*<sub>*k*</sub>∥=1 for all *j*, *k*, such
that:
\[*C*\]<sub>*j**k*</sub> = *u*<sub>*j*</sub> ⋅ *v*<sub>*k*</sub>

This decomposition is not just useful for a clearer characterization of
quantum correlation matrices, but also because it allows one to employ
Grothendieck’s inequality to bound the values a quantum matrix can take.

<span>**Grothendieck.**</span> For an arbitrary *n* × *n* matrix
\[*α*<sub>*i**j*</sub>\], and
*u*<sub>1</sub>, …, *u*<sub>*n*</sub>, *v*<sub>1</sub>, …, *v*<sub>*m*</sub> ∈ *H*
for Hilbert space *H*, we have:
|∑*α*<sub>*i**j*</sub>*u*<sub>*i*</sub>⋅*v*<sub>*j*</sub>| ≤ *K*<sub>*G*</sub>sup<sub>*i*</sub>∥*u*<sub>*i*</sub>∥⋅sup<sub>*j*</sub>∥*v*<sub>*j*</sub>∥

Thus, in this formulation we can see that for any quantum correlation
matrix \[*C*\]<sub>*i**j*</sub> = *u*<sub>*j*</sub> ⋅ *v*<sub>*k*</sub>:

|∑*α*<sub>*i**j*</sub>\[*C*\]<sub>*i**j*</sub>| = |∑*α*<sub>*i**j*</sub>*u*<sub>*i*</sub>⋅*v*<sub>*j*</sub>| ≤ *K*<sub>*G*</sub>sup<sub>*i*</sub>∥*u*<sub>*i*</sub>∥⋅sup<sub>*j*</sub>∥*v*<sub>*j*</sub>∥≤*K*<sub>*G*</sub>sup<sub>*C*′∈*Λ*<sub>*C*</sub></sub>∑*α*<sub>*i**j*</sub>\[*C*′\]<sub>*i**j*</sub>

Thus, we have the following result:
*Λ*<sub>*Q*</sub> ⊂ *K*<sub>*G*</sub>*Λ*<sub>*C*</sub>

<span>9</span>

B. S. Tsirelson, “Quantum analogs of the Bell inequalities. The case of
two spatially separated domains”, J. Math. Sci. 36(3), 557–570 (1987).
Translated from Russian: Zapiski LOMI 142, 174-194 (1985).

A. Grothendieck, “R´esum´e de la th´eorie m´etrique des produits
tensoriels topologiques” (French), Bol. Soc. Mat. Sao Paulo 8, 1–79
(1953).

G. Pisier, “Grothendieck’s theorem, past and present”, arXiv.
